fix(DOC-1940): clarify rpk topic consume keeps connection open (#1612)
redpanda-data/documentation: versioned_docs/version-23.2/reference/rpk/rpk-x-options.mdx

---
title: rpk options
rpk_version: (rev )
---

<head>
  <meta name="title" content="rpk -X options | Redpanda Docs" />
  <meta name="description" content="rpk -X options" />
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/reference/rpk/rpk-x-options/" />
</head>

Use rpk with the `-X` flag to override any rpk-specific configuration option.

Every configuration flag for rpk is a `key=value` option following the `-X` flag. For example, `rpk -X tls.enabled=true` enables TLS for the Kafka API.

Every `-X` option can be translated into an environment variable by prefixing with `RPK_` and replacing periods (`.`) with underscores (`_`). For example, the flag `tls.enabled` has the equivalent environment variable `RPK_TLS_ENABLED`.

:::important
- Flags common across all rpk commands in previous versions (for example, `--brokers`, `--tls-enabled`) are deprecated. 
- Functionality of all deprecated flags are supported as `-X` options.
:::

:::tip Tips
- rpk supports command-line (tab) completion for `-X` flag keys.

> - Each rpk command's `-help` text prints information specific to the command. To get description about `-X` options, run `rpk -X list` to list supported options, or run `rpk -X help` to get details about supported options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each rpk command's `-help` text prints information specific to the command. To get a description of `-X` options, run `rpk -X list` to list supported options, or run `rpk -X help` to get details about supported options.
```

### tls.key

A filepath to a PEM encoded client key file to talk to your broker's Kafka API listeners with mTLS.

**Example**: `tls.key=/path/to/key.pem`

---

### sasl.mechanism

The SASL mechanism to use for authentication, either `SCRAM-SHA-256` or `SCRAM-SHA-512`. 

:::note
With Redpanda, the Admin API can be configured to require basic authentication with your Kafka API SASL credentials. This defaults to `SCRAM-SHA-256` if no mechanism is specified.
:::

**Example**: `sasl.mechanism=SCRAM-SHA-256`

---

### user

The SASL username to use for authentication. It's also used for the Admin API if you have configured it to require basic authentication.

**Example**: `user=username`

---

### pass

The SASL password to use for authentication. It's also used for the Admin API if you have configured it to require basic authentication.

**Example**: `pass=password`

---

### admin.hosts

A comma separated list of `host:ports` that rpk communicates with for the Admin API. By default, this is set to `127.0.0.1:9644`.

**Example**: `admin.hosts=localhost:9644,rp.example.com:9644`

---

### admin.tls.enabled

A boolean that enables rpk to speak TLS to your broker's Admin API listeners.
  

> You can use this if you have well known certificates setup on your Admin API. If you use mTLS, specifying mTLS certificate filepaths automatically opts into `admin.tls.enabled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this if you have well known certificates set up on your Admin API. If you use mTLS, specifying mTLS certificate filepaths automatically opts into `admin.tls.enabled`.
```
